docs/CONTROLFLOW.md, before:

# Control Flow Obfuscation

Control flow obfuscation is an opt-in hardening layer. Enable it explicitly via the `-controlflow` flag (for example `garble -controlflow=auto build`) or set the `GARBLE_CONTROLFLOW` environment variable in your build environment.

### Mechanism


Control flow obfuscation works in several stages:

1) Collect candidate functions based on the chosen scope:
	- `off` (default) disables the transform entirely
	- `auto` obfuscates every function with a body unless it is tagged with `//garble:nocontrolflow`
	- `directives` only obfuscates functions annotated with `//garble:controlflow`
	- `all` forces every function with a body to be obfuscated; the skip directive still takes precedence
2) Converts [go/ast](https://pkg.go.dev/go/ast) representation to [go/ssa](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/go/ssa)
3) Applies [block splitting](#block-splitting)
4) Generates [junk jumps](#junk-jumps)
5) Applies [control flow flattening](#control-flow-flattening)
6) Applies (if enabled) [control flow hardening](#control-flow-hardening)
7) Generates [trash blocks](#trash-blocks)
8) Converts go/ssa back into go/ast

### Example usage

```shell
garble -controlflow=auto build ./...
```

```go
// Skip auto mode for performance critical helpers
//garble:nocontrolflow
func fastPath() {}
```

```go
// Obfuscate with defaults parameters
//garble:controlflow
func main() {
	println("Hello world!")
}


// Obfuscate with maximum parameters
//garble:controlflow block_splits=max junk_jumps=max flatten_passes=max
func main() {
    println("Hello world!")
}
```

### Parameter explanation

> Unlike other garble features (which just work), we recommend that you understand how parameters affect control flow obfuscation and which caveats exist.

> Code snippets below without name obfuscation, for better readability.

#### Block splitting

Parameter: `block_splits` (default: `0`)

> Warning: this param affects resulting binary only when used in combination with [flattening](#control-flow-flattening)


Block splitting splits the largest SSA block into 2 parts of random size, this is done `block_splits` times at most. If there is no more suitable block to split (number of ssa instructions in block is less than 3), splitting stops.

This param is very useful if your code has few branches (`if`, `switch` etc.).

Input:
```go
package main

// Note that the block_splits value is "max", so code blocks are split into the smallest possible blocks.
//garble:controlflow flatten_passes=0 junk_jumps=0 block_splits=max
func main() {
	println("1")
	println("2")
	println("3")
	println("4")
	println("5")
}
```

Result:

```go
func main() {
	{
		println("1")
		goto _s2a_l3
	}
_s2a_l1:
	{
		println("3")
		goto _s2a_l4
	}
_s2a_l2:
	{
		println("5")
		return
	}
_s2a_l3:
	{
		println("2")
		goto _s2a_l1
	}
_s2a_l4:
	{
		println("4")
		goto _s2a_l2
	}
}
 
```


#### Junk jumps

Parameter: `junk_jumps` (default: `0`, maximum: `1024`)

> Warning: this param affects resulting binary only when used in combination with [flattening](#control-flow-flattening)

Junk jumps adds jumps to random blocks `junk_jumps` times, these inserted jumps can also form a chain. This param is useful for linearly increasing the functions complexity.

Input:
```go
//garble:controlflow flatten_passes=0 junk_jumps=5 block_splits=0
func main() {
	if true {
		println("hello world")
	}
}
```

Result: 

```go
func main() {
	{
		if true {
			goto _s2a_l4
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l2
		}
	}
_s2a_l1:
	{
		println("hello world")
		goto _s2a_l7
	}
_s2a_l2:
	{
		return
	}
_s2a_l3:
	{
		goto _s2a_l2
	}
_s2a_l4:
	{
		goto _s2a_l6
	}
_s2a_l5:
	{
		goto _s2a_l3
	}
_s2a_l6:
	{
		goto _s2a_l1
	}
_s2a_l7:
	{
		goto _s2a_l5
	}
}
```

#### Control flow flattening

Parameter: `flatten_passes` (default: `1`, maximum: `4`)


This parameter completely [flattens the control flow](https://github.com/obfuscator-llvm/obfuscator/wiki/Control-Flow-Flattening) `flatten_passes` times, which makes analysing the logic of the function very difficult
This is the most important parameter without which the other parameters have no effect on the resulting binary.

> Warning: Unlike junk jumps, this parameter increases control flow complexity non-linearly. In most cases we do not recommend specifying a value greater than 3. Check [Benchmark](#complexity-benchmark)


Input:
```go
//garble:controlflow flatten_passes=1 junk_jumps=0 block_splits=0
func main() {
	if true {
		println("hello world")
	} else {
		println("not hello world")
	}
}
```

Result:

```go
func main() {
	var _s2a_0 int
_s2a_l0:
	{
		goto _s2a_l2
	}
_s2a_l1:
	{
		println("not hello world")
		goto _s2a_l6
	}
_s2a_l2:
	{
		_s2a_1 := _s2a_0 == (int)(1)
		if _s2a_1 {
			goto _s2a_l9
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l8
		}
	}
_s2a_l3:
	{
		_s2a_2 := _s2a_0 == (int)(4)
		if _s2a_2 {
			goto _s2a_l4
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l5
		}
	}
_s2a_l4:
	{
		return
	}
_s2a_l5:
	{
		if true {
			goto _s2a_l7
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l11
		}
	}
_s2a_l6:
	{
		_s2a_0 = (int)(4)
		goto _s2a_l0
	}
_s2a_l7:
	{
		_s2a_0 = (int)(1)
		goto _s2a_l0
	}
_s2a_l8:
	{
		_s2a_3 := _s2a_0 == (int)(2)
		if _s2a_3 {
			goto _s2a_l1
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l12
		}
	}
_s2a_l9:
	{
		println("hello world")
		goto _s2a_l10
	}
_s2a_l10:
	{
		_s2a_0 = (int)(3)
		goto _s2a_l0
	}
_s2a_l11:
	{
		_s2a_0 = (int)(2)
		goto _s2a_l0
	}
_s2a_l12:
	{
		_s2a_4 := _s2a_0 == (int)(3)
		if _s2a_4 {
			goto _s2a_l4
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l3
		}
	}
}
```

#### Control flow hardening

Parameter: `flatten_hardening` (default: empty, supported: `xor,delegate_table`)

Dispatcher is the main and most vulnerable part of control flow flattening. By static analysis of the dispatcher, it is possible to reconstruct the original control flow ([example](https://research.openanalysis.net/angr/symbolic%20execution/deobfuscation/research/2022/03/26/angr_notes.html)). Hardening can be used to make this analysis more difficult by adding an extra layer of obfuscation and moving some of the computation to runtime

Input:
```go
//garble:controlflow flatten_passes=1 junk_jumps=0 block_splits=0 flatten_hardening=xor,delegate_table
func main() {
    delegateTableExample := func() {
        if true {
            println("hello world")
        } else {
            println("not hello world")
        }
    }
    xorHardeningExample := func() {
        if true {
            println("hello world")
        } else {
            println("not hello world")
        }
    }
    xorHardeningExample()
    delegateTableExample()
}
```

Result:

```go
var _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f = (func(key [15]byte) [4]func(int) int {
	return [4]func(int) int{func(i int) int {
		return i ^ (int(key[9]) ^ 1471366412)
	}, func(i int) int {
		return i ^ (int(key[8]) ^ 2052585894)
	}, func(i int) int {
		return i ^ (int(key[5]) ^ 1379898839)
	}, func(i int) int {
		return i ^ (int(key[2]) ^ 1234113468)
	}}
})([15]byte{245, 119, 121, 218, 176, 22, 77, 231, 166, 128, 110, 108, 203, 187, 98})
var _garble2qarm5eb1qi11 = func(secondKey [9]byte) int {
	r := 1292978203
	for _, b := range secondKey {
		r ^= int(b)
	}
	return r
}([9]byte{135, 182, 170, 227, 206, 227, 0, 35, 158})

func main() {
	_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 := _garble2qarm5eb1qi11
	_s2a_anonFunc0 := func() {
		var _s2a_0 int
	_s2a_l0:
		{
			goto _s2a_l1
		}
	_s2a_l1:
		{
			_s2a_1 := _s2a_0 == 80824627
			if _s2a_1 {
				goto _s2a_l10
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l12
			}
		}
	_s2a_l2:
		{
			_s2a_0 = _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f[1](2122756147)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l3:
		{
			_s2a_2 := _s2a_0 == 704161066
			if _s2a_2 {
				goto _s2a_l9
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l6
			}
		}
	_s2a_l4:
		{
			_s2a_0 = _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f[1](328288499)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l5:
		{
			_s2a_0 = _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f[1](1404001322)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l6:
		{
			if true {
				goto _s2a_l2
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l7
			}
		}
	_s2a_l7:
		{
			_s2a_0 = _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f[0](179434670)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l8:
		{
			_s2a_3 := _s2a_0 == 1774629363
			if _s2a_3 {
				goto _s2a_l9
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l3
			}
		}
	_s2a_l9:
		{
			return
		}
	_s2a_l10:
		{
			println("hello world")
			goto _s2a_l4
		}
	_s2a_l11:
		{
			println("not hello world")
			goto _s2a_l5
		}
	_s2a_l12:
		{
			_s2a_4 := _s2a_0 == 1560457506
			if _s2a_4 {
				goto _s2a_l11
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l8
			}
		}
	}
	_s2a_anonFunc1 := func() {
		var _s2a_5 int
	_s2a_l0:
		{
			goto _s2a_l7
		}
	_s2a_l1:
		{
			if true {
				goto _s2a_l9
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l8
			}
		}
	_s2a_l2:
		{
			return
		}
	_s2a_l3:
		{
			_s2a_6 := _s2a_5 == 2081682101
			if _s2a_6 {
				goto _s2a_l2
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l12
			}
		}
	_s2a_l4:
		{
			_s2a_5 = (_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 ^ 822262342)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l5:
		{
			_s2a_5 = (_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 ^ 1416961018)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l6:
		{
			println("hello world")
			goto _s2a_l4
		}
	_s2a_l7:
		{
			_s2a_7 := _s2a_5 == 1119315846
			if _s2a_7 {
				goto _s2a_l6
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l10
			}
		}
	_s2a_l8:
		{
			_s2a_5 = (_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 ^ 2067918970)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l9:
		{
			_s2a_5 = (_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 ^ 262549365)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l10:
		{
			_s2a_8 := _s2a_5 == 911259785
			if _s2a_8 {
				goto _s2a_l11
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l3
			}
		}
	_s2a_l11:
		{
			println("not hello world")
			goto _s2a_l5
		}
	_s2a_l12:
		{
			_s2a_9 := _s2a_5 == 426005257
			if _s2a_9 {
				goto _s2a_l2
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l1
			}
		}
	}
	{
		_s2a_anonFunc0()
		_s2a_anonFunc1()
		return
	}
}

```

#### Trash blocks

Parameter: `trash_blocks` (default: `0`, maximum: `1024`)

> Warning: this param affects resulting binary only when used in combination with [flattening](#control-flow-flattening)

Trash blocks generator generates blocks that will never be called. Trash blocks contain random function calls and random variable assignments. The purpose of this is to create a large number of references to different methods and local variables and in combination with other controlflow obfuscation parameters it helps to effectively hide the real code.

The generator does not add new dependencies to the project, it uses only existing direct or indirect dependencies. In the following example, the `fmt` package implicitly imports the `io` and `os` packages
Input:

```go
package main

import "fmt"

//garble:controlflow block_splits=0 junk_jumps=0 flatten_passes=0 trash_blocks=1
func main() {
	if true {
		fmt.Println("hello world")
	}
}
```

Result:

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"io"
	"os"
)

func main() {
	var (
		_s2a_4 int
		_s2a_5 bool
	)
	{
		if true {
			goto _s2a_l1
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l2
		}
	}
_s2a_l1:
	{
		_s2a_0 := new([1]interface {
		})
		_s2a_1 := &_s2a_0[(int)(0)]
		_s2a_2 := (interface {
		})("hello world")
		*_s2a_1 = _s2a_2
		_s2a_3 := _s2a_0[:]
		_, _ = fmt.Println(_s2a_3...)
		_s2a_4 = (int)(1375793722)
		goto _s2a_l3
	}
_s2a_l2:
	{
		return
	}
_s2a_l3:
	{
		_s2a_5 = _s2a_4 == (int)(1414729372)
		if _s2a_5 {
			goto _s2a_l4
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l2
		}
	}
_s2a_l4:
	{
		_s2a_5, _s2a_4 = true, _s2a_4
		_garble1v7i062eba5j0, _ := fmt.Printf((string)(_s2a_4), _s2a_4, _s2a_5)
		_garble27oahvink0hig, _ := fmt.Println(_garble1v7i062eba5j0)
		_ = fmt.Errorf((string)(_garble27oahvink0hig), os.Stdout, 714272279, _garble27oahvink0hig, io.EOF)
		_garble27oahvink0hig, _s2a_4, _garble1v7i062eba5j0, _s2a_5 = _s2a_4, (int)(77), _s2a_4, _s2a_5
		_, _garble6oknljnlggutn := fmt.Printf((string)(_garble1v7i062eba5j0))
		_, _garble8ne429queuq8n := fmt.Scanf((string)(751648516), os.Stdin, 0.17251639929485216, "UAN4E===")
		_garble1qt8quedh1fo9, _ := fmt.Scanf((string)(_s2a_4), _garble8ne429queuq8n, _s2a_5, _garble6oknljnlggutn)
		_, _ = fmt.Scanf((string)(_garble1qt8quedh1fo9))
		goto _s2a_l4
	}
}
```

### Caveats

* Obfuscation breaks the lazy iteration over maps. See: [ssa2ast/polyfill.go](../internal/ssa2ast/polyfill.go)

### Complexity benchmark

We approximate complexity by counting the number of blocks.

Analysed function:
```go
func sort(arr []int) []int {
	for i := 0; i < len(arr)-1; i++ {
		for j := 0; j < len(arr)-i-1; j++ {
			if arr[j] > arr[j+1] {
				arr[j], arr[j+1] = arr[j+1], arr[j]
			}
		}
	}
	return arr
}
```

Before obfuscation this function has `8` blocks.

| flatten_passes | block_splits | junk_jumps | block_count |
|----------------|--------------|------------|-------------|
| 1              | 0            | 0          | 32          |
| 1              | 10           | 0          | 62          |
| 1              | 100          | 0          | 95          |
| 1              | 1024         | 0          | 95          |
| 1              | 0            | 10         | 62          |
| 1              | 10           | 10         | 92          |
| 1              | 100          | 10         | 125         |
| 1              | 1024         | 10         | 125         |
| 1              | 0            | 100        | 332         |
| 1              | 10           | 100        | 362         |
| 1              | 100          | 100        | 395         |
| 1              | 1024         | 100        | 395         |
| 2              | 0            | 0          | 123         |
| 2              | 10           | 0          | 233         |
| 2              | 100          | 0          | 354         |
| 2              | 1024         | 0          | 354         |
| 2              | 0            | 10         | 233         |
| 2              | 10           | 10         | 343         |
| 2              | 100          | 10         | 464         |
| 2              | 1024         | 10         | 464         |
| 2              | 0            | 100        | 1223        |
| 2              | 10           | 100        | 1333        |
| 2              | 100          | 100        | 1454        |
| 2              | 1024         | 100        | 1454        |
| 3              | 0            | 0          | 486         |
| 3              | 10           | 0          | 916         |
| 3              | 100          | 0          | 1389        |
| 3              | 1024         | 0          | 1389        |
| 3              | 0            | 10         | 916         |
| 3              | 10           | 10         | 1346        |
| 3              | 100          | 10         | 1819        |
| 3              | 1024         | 10         | 1819        |
| 3              | 0            | 100        | 4786        |
| 3              | 10           | 100        | 5216        |
| 3              | 100          | 100        | 5689        |
| 3              | 1024         | 100        | 5689        |
| 4              | 0            | 0          | 1937        |
| 4              | 10           | 0          | 3647        |
| 4              | 100          | 0          | 5528        |
| 4              | 1024         | 0          | 5528        |
| 4              | 0            | 10         | 3647        |
| 4              | 10           | 10         | 5357        |
| 4              | 100          | 10         | 7238        |
| 4              | 1024         | 10         | 7238        |
| 4              | 0            | 100        | 19037       |
| 4              | 10           | 100        | 20747       |
| 4              | 100          | 100        | 22628       |
| 4              | 1024         | 100        | 22628       |

Commit message:

docs,feat: document and implement skipping of literal obfuscation for packages with low-level directives; improve control-flow fallback on typecheck failure; enhance type conversion and map iterator polyfill; add tests for directive detection and polyfill type nodes

docs/CONTROLFLOW.md, after:

# Control Flow Obfuscation

Control flow obfuscation is an opt-in hardening layer. Enable it explicitly via the `-controlflow` flag (for example `garble -controlflow=auto build`) or set the `GARBLE_CONTROLFLOW` environment variable in your build environment.

### Mechanism


Control flow obfuscation works in several stages:

1) Collect candidate functions based on the chosen scope:
	- `off` (default) disables the transform entirely
	- `auto` obfuscates every function with a body unless it is tagged with `//garble:nocontrolflow`
	- `directives` only obfuscates functions annotated with `//garble:controlflow`
	- `all` forces every function with a body to be obfuscated; the skip directive still takes precedence
2) Converts [go/ast](https://pkg.go.dev/go/ast) representation to [go/ssa](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/go/ssa)
3) Applies [block splitting](#block-splitting)
4) Generates [junk jumps](#junk-jumps)
5) Applies [control flow flattening](#control-flow-flattening)
6) Applies (if enabled) [control flow hardening](#control-flow-hardening)
7) Generates [trash blocks](#trash-blocks)
8) Converts go/ssa back into go/ast

If the post-transform typecheck fails for a package, Garble disables control-flow for that package and logs the reason, then continues the build with the original sources.

### Example usage

```shell
garble -controlflow=auto build ./...
```

```go
// Skip auto mode for performance critical helpers
//garble:nocontrolflow
func fastPath() {}
```

```go
// Obfuscate with defaults parameters
//garble:controlflow
func main() {
	println("Hello world!")
}


// Obfuscate with maximum parameters
//garble:controlflow block_splits=max junk_jumps=max flatten_passes=max
func main() {
    println("Hello world!")
}
```

### Parameter explanation

> Unlike other garble features (which just work), we recommend that you understand how parameters affect control flow obfuscation and which caveats exist.

> Code snippets below without name obfuscation, for better readability.

#### Block splitting

Parameter: `block_splits` (default: `0`)

> Warning: this param affects resulting binary only when used in combination with [flattening](#control-flow-flattening)


Block splitting splits the largest SSA block into 2 parts of random size, this is done `block_splits` times at most. If there is no more suitable block to split (number of ssa instructions in block is less than 3), splitting stops.

This param is very useful if your code has few branches (`if`, `switch` etc.).

Input:
```go
package main

// Note that the block_splits value is "max", so code blocks are split into the smallest possible blocks.
//garble:controlflow flatten_passes=0 junk_jumps=0 block_splits=max
func main() {
	println("1")
	println("2")
	println("3")
	println("4")
	println("5")
}
```

Result:

```go
func main() {
	{
		println("1")
		goto _s2a_l3
	}
_s2a_l1:
	{
		println("3")
		goto _s2a_l4
	}
_s2a_l2:
	{
		println("5")
		return
	}
_s2a_l3:
	{
		println("2")
		goto _s2a_l1
	}
_s2a_l4:
	{
		println("4")
		goto _s2a_l2
	}
}
 
```


#### Junk jumps

Parameter: `junk_jumps` (default: `0`, maximum: `1024`)

> Warning: this param affects resulting binary only when used in combination with [flattening](#control-flow-flattening)

Junk jumps adds jumps to random blocks `junk_jumps` times, these inserted jumps can also form a chain. This param is useful for linearly increasing the functions complexity.

Input:
```go
//garble:controlflow flatten_passes=0 junk_jumps=5 block_splits=0
func main() {
	if true {
		println("hello world")
	}
}
```

Result: 

```go
func main() {
	{
		if true {
			goto _s2a_l4
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l2
		}
	}
_s2a_l1:
	{
		println("hello world")
		goto _s2a_l7
	}
_s2a_l2:
	{
		return
	}
_s2a_l3:
	{
		goto _s2a_l2
	}
_s2a_l4:
	{
		goto _s2a_l6
	}
_s2a_l5:
	{
		goto _s2a_l3
	}
_s2a_l6:
	{
		goto _s2a_l1
	}
_s2a_l7:
	{
		goto _s2a_l5
	}
}
```

#### Control flow flattening

Parameter: `flatten_passes` (default: `1`, maximum: `4`)


This parameter completely [flattens the control flow](https://github.com/obfuscator-llvm/obfuscator/wiki/Control-Flow-Flattening) `flatten_passes` times, which makes analysing the logic of the function very difficult
This is the most important parameter without which the other parameters have no effect on the resulting binary.

> Warning: Unlike junk jumps, this parameter increases control flow complexity non-linearly. In most cases we do not recommend specifying a value greater than 3. Check [Benchmark](#complexity-benchmark)


Input:
```go
//garble:controlflow flatten_passes=1 junk_jumps=0 block_splits=0
func main() {
	if true {
		println("hello world")
	} else {
		println("not hello world")
	}
}
```

Result:

```go
func main() {
	var _s2a_0 int
_s2a_l0:
	{
		goto _s2a_l2
	}
_s2a_l1:
	{
		println("not hello world")
		goto _s2a_l6
	}
_s2a_l2:
	{
		_s2a_1 := _s2a_0 == (int)(1)
		if _s2a_1 {
			goto _s2a_l9
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l8
		}
	}
_s2a_l3:
	{
		_s2a_2 := _s2a_0 == (int)(4)
		if _s2a_2 {
			goto _s2a_l4
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l5
		}
	}
_s2a_l4:
	{
		return
	}
_s2a_l5:
	{
		if true {
			goto _s2a_l7
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l11
		}
	}
_s2a_l6:
	{
		_s2a_0 = (int)(4)
		goto _s2a_l0
	}
_s2a_l7:
	{
		_s2a_0 = (int)(1)
		goto _s2a_l0
	}
_s2a_l8:
	{
		_s2a_3 := _s2a_0 == (int)(2)
		if _s2a_3 {
			goto _s2a_l1
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l12
		}
	}
_s2a_l9:
	{
		println("hello world")
		goto _s2a_l10
	}
_s2a_l10:
	{
		_s2a_0 = (int)(3)
		goto _s2a_l0
	}
_s2a_l11:
	{
		_s2a_0 = (int)(2)
		goto _s2a_l0
	}
_s2a_l12:
	{
		_s2a_4 := _s2a_0 == (int)(3)
		if _s2a_4 {
			goto _s2a_l4
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l3
		}
	}
}
```

#### Control flow hardening

Parameter: `flatten_hardening` (default: empty, supported: `xor,delegate_table`)

Dispatcher is the main and most vulnerable part of control flow flattening. By static analysis of the dispatcher, it is possible to reconstruct the original control flow ([example](https://research.openanalysis.net/angr/symbolic%20execution/deobfuscation/research/2022/03/26/angr_notes.html)). Hardening can be used to make this analysis more difficult by adding an extra layer of obfuscation and moving some of the computation to runtime

Input:
```go
//garble:controlflow flatten_passes=1 junk_jumps=0 block_splits=0 flatten_hardening=xor,delegate_table
func main() {
    delegateTableExample := func() {
        if true {
            println("hello world")
        } else {
            println("not hello world")
        }
    }
    xorHardeningExample := func() {
        if true {
            println("hello world")
        } else {
            println("not hello world")
        }
    }
    xorHardeningExample()
    delegateTableExample()
}
```

Result:

```go
var _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f = (func(key [15]byte) [4]func(int) int {
	return [4]func(int) int{func(i int) int {
		return i ^ (int(key[9]) ^ 1471366412)
	}, func(i int) int {
		return i ^ (int(key[8]) ^ 2052585894)
	}, func(i int) int {
		return i ^ (int(key[5]) ^ 1379898839)
	}, func(i int) int {
		return i ^ (int(key[2]) ^ 1234113468)
	}}
})([15]byte{245, 119, 121, 218, 176, 22, 77, 231, 166, 128, 110, 108, 203, 187, 98})
var _garble2qarm5eb1qi11 = func(secondKey [9]byte) int {
	r := 1292978203
	for _, b := range secondKey {
		r ^= int(b)
	}
	return r
}([9]byte{135, 182, 170, 227, 206, 227, 0, 35, 158})

func main() {
	_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 := _garble2qarm5eb1qi11
	_s2a_anonFunc0 := func() {
		var _s2a_0 int
	_s2a_l0:
		{
			goto _s2a_l1
		}
	_s2a_l1:
		{
			_s2a_1 := _s2a_0 == 80824627
			if _s2a_1 {
				goto _s2a_l10
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l12
			}
		}
	_s2a_l2:
		{
			_s2a_0 = _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f[1](2122756147)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l3:
		{
			_s2a_2 := _s2a_0 == 704161066
			if _s2a_2 {
				goto _s2a_l9
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l6
			}
		}
	_s2a_l4:
		{
			_s2a_0 = _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f[1](328288499)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l5:
		{
			_s2a_0 = _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f[1](1404001322)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l6:
		{
			if true {
				goto _s2a_l2
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l7
			}
		}
	_s2a_l7:
		{
			_s2a_0 = _garble2ec9r7n6t4d7f[0](179434670)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l8:
		{
			_s2a_3 := _s2a_0 == 1774629363
			if _s2a_3 {
				goto _s2a_l9
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l3
			}
		}
	_s2a_l9:
		{
			return
		}
	_s2a_l10:
		{
			println("hello world")
			goto _s2a_l4
		}
	_s2a_l11:
		{
			println("not hello world")
			goto _s2a_l5
		}
	_s2a_l12:
		{
			_s2a_4 := _s2a_0 == 1560457506
			if _s2a_4 {
				goto _s2a_l11
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l8
			}
		}
	}
	_s2a_anonFunc1 := func() {
		var _s2a_5 int
	_s2a_l0:
		{
			goto _s2a_l7
		}
	_s2a_l1:
		{
			if true {
				goto _s2a_l9
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l8
			}
		}
	_s2a_l2:
		{
			return
		}
	_s2a_l3:
		{
			_s2a_6 := _s2a_5 == 2081682101
			if _s2a_6 {
				goto _s2a_l2
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l12
			}
		}
	_s2a_l4:
		{
			_s2a_5 = (_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 ^ 822262342)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l5:
		{
			_s2a_5 = (_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 ^ 1416961018)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l6:
		{
			println("hello world")
			goto _s2a_l4
		}
	_s2a_l7:
		{
			_s2a_7 := _s2a_5 == 1119315846
			if _s2a_7 {
				goto _s2a_l6
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l10
			}
		}
	_s2a_l8:
		{
			_s2a_5 = (_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 ^ 2067918970)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l9:
		{
			_s2a_5 = (_garble8q5qknh1tfib1 ^ 262549365)
			goto _s2a_l0
		}
	_s2a_l10:
		{
			_s2a_8 := _s2a_5 == 911259785
			if _s2a_8 {
				goto _s2a_l11
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l3
			}
		}
	_s2a_l11:
		{
			println("not hello world")
			goto _s2a_l5
		}
	_s2a_l12:
		{
			_s2a_9 := _s2a_5 == 426005257
			if _s2a_9 {
				goto _s2a_l2
			} else {
				goto _s2a_l1
			}
		}
	}
	{
		_s2a_anonFunc0()
		_s2a_anonFunc1()
		return
	}
}

```

#### Trash blocks

Parameter: `trash_blocks` (default: `0`, maximum: `1024`)

> Warning: this param affects resulting binary only when used in combination with [flattening](#control-flow-flattening)

Trash blocks generator generates blocks that will never be called. Trash blocks contain random function calls and random variable assignments. The purpose of this is to create a large number of references to different methods and local variables and in combination with other controlflow obfuscation parameters it helps to effectively hide the real code.

The generator does not add new dependencies to the project, it uses only existing direct or indirect dependencies. In the following example, the `fmt` package implicitly imports the `io` and `os` packages
Input:

```go
package main

import "fmt"

//garble:controlflow block_splits=0 junk_jumps=0 flatten_passes=0 trash_blocks=1
func main() {
	if true {
		fmt.Println("hello world")
	}
}
```

Result:

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"io"
	"os"
)

func main() {
	var (
		_s2a_4 int
		_s2a_5 bool
	)
	{
		if true {
			goto _s2a_l1
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l2
		}
	}
_s2a_l1:
	{
		_s2a_0 := new([1]interface {
		})
		_s2a_1 := &_s2a_0[(int)(0)]
		_s2a_2 := (interface {
		})("hello world")
		*_s2a_1 = _s2a_2
		_s2a_3 := _s2a_0[:]
		_, _ = fmt.Println(_s2a_3...)
		_s2a_4 = (int)(1375793722)
		goto _s2a_l3
	}
_s2a_l2:
	{
		return
	}
_s2a_l3:
	{
		_s2a_5 = _s2a_4 == (int)(1414729372)
		if _s2a_5 {
			goto _s2a_l4
		} else {
			goto _s2a_l2
		}
	}
_s2a_l4:
	{
		_s2a_5, _s2a_4 = true, _s2a_4
		_garble1v7i062eba5j0, _ := fmt.Printf((string)(_s2a_4), _s2a_4, _s2a_5)
		_garble27oahvink0hig, _ := fmt.Println(_garble1v7i062eba5j0)
		_ = fmt.Errorf((string)(_garble27oahvink0hig), os.Stdout, 714272279, _garble27oahvink0hig, io.EOF)
		_garble27oahvink0hig, _s2a_4, _garble1v7i062eba5j0, _s2a_5 = _s2a_4, (int)(77), _s2a_4, _s2a_5
		_, _garble6oknljnlggutn := fmt.Printf((string)(_garble1v7i062eba5j0))
		_, _garble8ne429queuq8n := fmt.Scanf((string)(751648516), os.Stdin, 0.17251639929485216, "UAN4E===")
		_garble1qt8quedh1fo9, _ := fmt.Scanf((string)(_s2a_4), _garble8ne429queuq8n, _s2a_5, _garble6oknljnlggutn)
		_, _ = fmt.Scanf((string)(_garble1qt8quedh1fo9))
		goto _s2a_l4
	}
}
```

### Caveats

* Obfuscation breaks the lazy iteration over maps. See: [ssa2ast/polyfill.go](../internal/ssa2ast/polyfill.go)

### Complexity benchmark

We approximate complexity by counting the number of blocks.

Analysed function:
```go
func sort(arr []int) []int {
	for i := 0; i < len(arr)-1; i++ {
		for j := 0; j < len(arr)-i-1; j++ {
			if arr[j] > arr[j+1] {
				arr[j], arr[j+1] = arr[j+1], arr[j]
			}
		}
	}
	return arr
}
```

Before obfuscation this function has `8` blocks.

| flatten_passes | block_splits | junk_jumps | block_count |
|----------------|--------------|------------|-------------|
| 1              | 0            | 0          | 32          |
| 1              | 10           | 0          | 62          |
| 1              | 100          | 0          | 95          |
| 1              | 1024         | 0          | 95          |
| 1              | 0            | 10         | 62          |
| 1              | 10           | 10         | 92          |
| 1              | 100          | 10         | 125         |
| 1              | 1024         | 10         | 125         |
| 1              | 0            | 100        | 332         |
| 1              | 10           | 100        | 362         |
| 1              | 100          | 100        | 395         |
| 1              | 1024         | 100        | 395         |
| 2              | 0            | 0          | 123         |
| 2              | 10           | 0          | 233         |
| 2              | 100          | 0          | 354         |
| 2              | 1024         | 0          | 354         |
| 2              | 0            | 10         | 233         |
| 2              | 10           | 10         | 343         |
| 2              | 100          | 10         | 464         |
| 2              | 1024         | 10         | 464         |
| 2              | 0            | 100        | 1223        |
| 2              | 10           | 100        | 1333        |
| 2              | 100          | 100        | 1454        |
| 2              | 1024         | 100        | 1454        |
| 3              | 0            | 0          | 486         |
| 3              | 10           | 0          | 916         |
| 3              | 100          | 0          | 1389        |
| 3              | 1024         | 0          | 1389        |
| 3              | 0            | 10         | 916         |
| 3              | 10           | 10         | 1346        |
| 3              | 100          | 10         | 1819        |
| 3              | 1024         | 10         | 1819        |
| 3              | 0            | 100        | 4786        |
| 3              | 10           | 100        | 5216        |
| 3              | 100          | 100        | 5689        |
| 3              | 1024         | 100        | 5689        |
| 4              | 0            | 0          | 1937        |
| 4              | 10           | 0          | 3647        |
| 4              | 100          | 0          | 5528        |
| 4              | 1024         | 0          | 5528        |
| 4              | 0            | 10         | 3647        |
| 4              | 10           | 10         | 5357        |
| 4              | 100          | 10         | 7238        |
| 4              | 1024         | 10         | 7238        |
| 4              | 0            | 100        | 19037       |
| 4              | 10           | 100        | 20747       |
| 4              | 100          | 100        | 22628       |
| 4              | 1024         | 100        | 22628       |
